pumped um about what we're gonna discuss today
and to say that um as we jump into this you'll
probably say why are you saying that but um this
is something i've kind of found as i study god's
word is there's those times where you've read a
passage multiple times and then you read it again
you're like wow like i saw something new and so i
really feel like that this text today that we'll
walk through um each one of us if you've walked
through the book of jonah that's where we're going
to be today the book of jonah um we're going to
walk through that over the next several weeks
probably months because we typically
go pretty slow on on these verses
um but i believe you're going to see something
new maybe that you haven't seen and that's what
i just asked the lord to do in your life and in my
life and so i encourage you to do the same thing
but i'm thankful for the word of god and just
an encouragement to you if you don't have a copy
meaning if you don't bring your bible with you
which whenever i used to go to church i didn't
bring my bible either i just brought it on my
phone my phone's the greatest resource because
i would forget my bible at church and so i don't
bring my bible except for now whenever i preach
so if you don't have a bible grab one on
the way out on our next steps table if you
also don't have one and don't want to grab one
just grab your phone download the you version
bible app look for jonah jonah's going to be near
the old testament it's probably actually nearer
to matthew in the new testament but it's still
the old testament um and uh hopefully you'll
find that as you're looking but we'll be in jonah
chapter one verses one through three in that and
so something i just wanted to encourage you with
is this idea of if sunday morning is the only time
that you open the word of god and you
hear from the word of god it's not enough
and i was just thinking through that this
morning is there was times whenever i first
started attending church where that was the only
place that i got the word of god in my life was
whenever a pastor would preach it and i would read
it and then i would close it and then i would open
it up next sunday but as i've found in my life
as i've personally grown that that's not enough
so i think of it this way if you ate
one meal a week would you survive
maybe you would look really sickly you might
be able to survive but you might look sickly
so if that's what our physical bodies would
look like what do our spiritual bodies look
like when we feed ourselves once a week very
sick right dried up whatever you want to call
it just that imagery so just an encouragement
to you is um don't miss the opportunity to be
in the word of god every day don't miss the
opportunity to just pray however you can
if you don't know all the words that you think you
need to know just pray what's on your heart it's a
conversation with god but i do want to encourage
you as we walk through the book of jonah if you
aren't currently reading something during the
week or even if you are read along with us which
means this each week i encourage you just read
through the book of jonah it'll be easy if you
read through the book of jonah each week during
this series i think that god will speak to you
and you'll be even more ready to receive
whatever god has for you when you come on sundays
so just an encouragement for you but as we jump
into this book i know it's familiar to some of
you so i want to talk to everybody and just kind
of see what do you remember about the jonas story
and you may even just have the kids version of it
so what do you guys remember of the jonah story
what's the highlights about
a well is it a well anybody
it could be a fish i don't know it's always that
big thing it's not a world's a fish but it's
really it's big fish it's a mammal there okay
what else do we remember well definitely one
anybody remember anything else about jonah
he ran from god so he's running and how many
of us like running in here i mean like
physically running i mean some of us do
okay what else do you remember what's some
of the things you remember jonah's story
nineveh right the people that he did
not want to go to i'll give one more
one more shout out what's one more thing
maybe you remember about the jonah story
okay so we'll just it's okay so i just wanted
to kind of get you guys jumping in on that
um and so a couple of things that we just kind of
remember what i thought of was the first thing is
jonah was a prophet right if you think of the song
anybody here jonah was a prophet i'm gonna stop if
you guys don't know what i'm okay um but anyways
there is a children's song about that so john was
a prophet a prophet uh was known to speak whatever
god told them so they had a great connection with
god this is pre christ coming dying raising again
and the holy spirit coming in our life so now that
we have full access to god we don't need a prophet
to speak to us or even a priest to speak to us
for god god can speak directly to us but a prophet
would receive a word from the lord and usually it
was either good or bad right so and what we say
with this is hey destruction is going to come down
on you you need to repent and turn or and that was
this case right or the other is hey something good
is going to happen and so obviously jonah in in
his previous before this time he actually gave
a good report about the israel which was god's
people of that time would receive back some land
and so it was positive jonah was known as really
a good prophet right so a prophet that didn't
if he prophesied and something didn't come true
he was known as a false prophet and most false
prophets would be killed so in those days it'd
be fun to be a prophet i'm just joking by the way
um but here's some key themes that you know
obviously we think of but the great fish
right or the well is mentioned four times the
great city of nineveh is mentioned nine times
and the disobedient prophet
jonah has mentioned 18 times
but when we really look at this book mentioned
it 38 times as god this book is really about god
in all these four chapters and so there's two
things that we're gonna see throughout this
book as we walk through it uh as one is is
that the book of jonah is about the will of god
and how we should respond to it um and
then it's also about the love of god and
how we should share it with others so
we'll we'll be using those two themes
right the will of god and how we should
respond to it and the love of god and
how we should share with others and we're
going to learn how jonah had a poor example
but one of the things we're also going to learn
is it's easy to judge other people um in their
disobedience to the lord and then sit over in our
side and you know not really look at ourselves
and so it's going to be easy to judge them but
here's what i saw as i began to study this is
as we look more and more into the story rather
than seeing jonah in this story you're gonna see
yourself a reflection of yourself which brings
about you know a little bit of conviction and
awkwardness of like oh gosh if if this is how i'm
acting then what should i do and we'll talk about
that so um let's jump into this so that we um can
kind of see where god's gonna lead us and so we're
just gonna cover the first three verses in jonah
chapter one and this is what it says it says the
word of the lord came to jonah son of amitai
get up and go to the great city of nineveh and
preach against it because their evil has come up
before me and so jonah got up to fleet of tarshish
from the lord's presence he went down to joppa and
found a ship going to tarshish he paid the fare
and went down into it to go with them to tarshish
from the lord's presence so we hear a command
and he runs directly from it i don't know
if any of you have ever ran from you know
an opportunity or maybe it's a command from god
but we're going to kind of look at this and see
how every situation that jonah walked through
and really the problems that jonah had was
all about a wrong attitude anybody ever
had a wrong attitude towards something
i know i have okay so we've
got a couple of hands back here
i think about this way you ever do something for
somebody but you do it but begrudgingly right like
i gotta you know for me it's cleaning bathrooms
i don't like clean bathrooms i'll fold laundry
all day i'll do dishes but if it's bathrooms it's
like i'm mumbling under my breath right for some
of us it's what we're doing at our job right our
attitude is poor because we don't like what we
have to do or what the boss wants us to do or the
deadline he's given us and again most of us can
think through multiple different other things
that we have a poor attitude and so jonah had
the wrong attitude towards several things we're
looking for them today and the first one is it's
towards the will of god when we think about jonah
he had the wrong attitude towards the will of god
see jonah's looking at this situation and god is
calling him to go preach which is not uncommon
for jonah against nineveh well if you look at
who nineveh is and really it's the assyrians
who lived in nineveh they were israels again
god's people these are the people that jonah
was a part of that was their worst enemy see the
assyrians were known as people who tortured people
uh their enemies and they would do horrible
horrible things to them right and so imagine
being asked to go do something like that
where you would have to go to your enemy and
preach against them right i don't know about you
guys but i'd be pretty afraid because i wouldn't
be tortured number one i wouldn't probably want
anybody to forgive people that have wronged me
right i think those are a couple of things that
we think about but i think about this just to
kind of give you some context uh 9 11 was one
of the most tragic things ever to happen to our
country and at that moment everybody knows that we
probably flipped the switch and we had a negative
view towards the enemy whoever that was i don't
remember if it was the taliban or iraq or whoever
everybody had a different perspective but in that
moment that that happened imagine somebody walking
up to you and say hey actually let's just let me
just go a little bit further what if god spoke
directly to you and said hey go there and preach
so that they may repent and turn from their sins
that would have been difficult i don't know about
you guys but there would have been a lot of anger
welling up in me going no just pour out your
wrath lord they deserve it see this is the exact
and i may be wrong but i i kind of
look this exact comparison we can think
in present day that we can maybe think that
jonah was going through why jonah would run
because that's the first thing i think of i want
to judge jonah the lord spoke to you and you ran
like really jonah i mean come on but it was
a tough tough thing that god asked me to do
and so you know again jonah had the wrong attitude
towards god's will it looks like it's justified
when we think about this um but it's easy to
follow god and this is the part where i want
to kind of get it it's easy to follow god when
we're comfortable when it's what we want to do
you know when god says hey go to church which
really he doesn't say go to church he says gather
with god's people we say hey that's easy i love
the people of god let's go right he says hey spend
time in the word with me you go you know it's
actually fun reading i love reading the word great
easy hey go across the street talk to your
neighbor about jesus oh wait whoa too much
they may think i'm weird i may not know every
answer that they are going to ask me lord no
i'm good nobody's ever done that probably here
i i know i have several times right that that
thought of saying no right it's easy to follow
god when it's comfortable jonah just got done
prophesying that israel is going to reclaim
some of their land that was easy celebrate
jonah he brought a great word from the lord now
he's asked to go to his enemies right and so
i know i was confronted with that the moment
that i got saved i had somebody in my life
without going to a long story but i had somebody
in my life that i hated had actually really broke
apart a lot of our family and a lot of things that
happened young in my life and i hated that person
i mean literally hated them when i would talk to
people about that person i would talk about how
much i hated them the moment that i came to faith
in christ was the moment that god reminded me
at that moment i had to make a decision was i
going to forgive this guy and move on or was
it going to hold a grudge and i had to forgive
him and was it easy no it was a daily decision
until now today i can actually care for this
person one of my friends this was his dad but
i still had a grudge against him and this guy's
actually struggling in the hospital right now
and i reached out to my friend and i said hey how
can i pray for him so today a guy in which i hated
but after i gave my life to the lord i have
forgiven and can now look at with compassion
and see it's it's one of those things that i
think at times we we think we have this oh we're
justified by how we feel and jonah felt the same
way right so it's easy to follow jesus when it's
when it's comfortable but not when we
get placed in this uncomfortable position
and so um let me ask this question then for you
how many of y'all do well outside of your
comfort zones anybody just raise your hand
whenever you're placed in a spot that you're
not comfortable how many of you excel at that
okay so if i asked somebody to stand up
here right now and begin to take my place to
to preach this text how many by raise of
hands would want to jump up here and do that
okay matt's coming i'm trying so i saw him you
know no anyways so i look at these moments right
it's those moments where you're like oh gosh like
i'm not prepared i'm uncomfortable you name it
so we all understand that we now want to sit here
and look at jonah and say jonah how could you run
but many of us run every day to the places
of comfort rather than the places that god
has called us so this is the moment where we're
going to set the stage for this book and we're
going to go we're going to spend the rest of this
book looking in a mirror rather than at jonah and
at ourselves and our walk with god now let me be
the greatest encourager that i can be because i
want to be this is not meant to defeat you it's
meant to encourage you it's meant to remind you
it's meant to help you because the cool part
would if you go back to jonah's circumstance
god was with jonah god gave jonah the words
god gave jonah the power and the protection
but jonah didn't see that he thought of something
else and so i just to give you an example if you
want to know hey do i struggle with this i
probably already said yes but friday night
we went to a um it was a cookout um payton is part
of a uh homeschool group and they had what i don't
ever know some kind of dinner thing for these
what a and b something group okay i'm you y'all
seventh and eighth year there we go it's close
enough whatever there was there's other programs
so you can tell how much involved i am so first
of all this means this i'm i'm going to a dinner
with people i don't know and the whole way there
britney's like you're acting weird and i'm like
i'm just nervous and she's like why it's like
because i don't know anybody and she's like you're
nervous because this isn't about like you're not
in control of the situation i'm like you're right
so we get out and like i'm saying some you know
like crazy words because i'm trying to just like
get comfortable and finally like i just shrink
in a corner and we leave at 7 30. like i mean i
i talked to a few people but i walked away and
just was like man i really failed today like
there's a ton of people i could have met and i met
a few but really i could have done better and like
i come back to this and i'm like i did the same
thing i'm comfortable around y'all i'm comfortable
in the places in which you know i'm familiar with
my home my kids the things i like the things i
know about but the moment i'm placed in an
uncomfortable situation i failed and so all of
a sudden god places a mirror and says hey you're
running from me you know you're running away and
so it's just challenged to me as i think about
this but that's not the only wrong attitude this
is towards the will of god right jonah towards the
will of god but the next wrong attitude that he
had was um towards and when i think about the will
of god is only going to the places where it is
comfortable right but when we look at the next one
it's the wrong attitude towards the word of god
and so again the lord spoke directly to
jonah directly to him and so jonah thought
he could take it or leave it anybody ever read
scripture that you didn't like and you're like
i can just turn the page i didn't see that
you know i mean maybe you don't say that
but when we read it and then we walk away
as though we never saw it aren't we really
saying that jonah heard the word of god and
walked directly from it so think about this
when god sword commands us we must listen and
obey disobedience isn't an option so why is
disobedience not an option well for one god said
that he saved you through his son jesus and you
chose to accept that salvation to obviously be
saved from your sins and to be a child of god
and to be one also a light to the world and so
when we've accepted that we've also accepted
to follow god and obey god
and what he calls us to do
so for some of us it's we just don't we don't
know the word of god well enough to know
and so it's really what i would say is we're
just knowledge isn't there but it's also we
need to be in the word of god so that we can hear
from the word of god right so jonah had forgotten
what privilege it was to hear directly from the
word of the lord and as believers we have the
word of god full access especially in america full
access not around the world they don't but we take
for granted that the word of god speaks directly
to us every day we've taken for granted for that
and in luke 6 46 says this it says why do you
call me lord lord and don't do the things i say
and so just i start feeling myself associate
really well now with jonah in this so jonah's
response was not based upon the word of god but up
based upon his personal feelings towards nineveh
see this is where we start getting
in the way is following god
becomes secondary to our personal preference
and so you know i struggle with this as well
because it's what i want to do and what i don't
want to do and it's about me and and it's really
not because my life has now been saved and been
given hope and peace and comfort from the lord
and so it's not about me anymore it's really about
nineveh we all have a nineveh we all have a people
that we struggle to go to and each one of us
will answer that through this book we're going
to answer who our enemy is and we're going to
begin to pray god that we don't run and that we
hear the word of god and that we actually respond
in obedience not disobedience i remember thinking
back to uh when we were in oklahoma and we told
everybody when we were planting a church in
cincinnati and i had a couple of my friends
some people that was i was even discipling
and remember saying hey we're going to cincinnati
this is what they said we couldn't do it
we couldn't go we wouldn't go and i kind
of like smiled and i said okay um you know
it's not easy to go but when god calls
you to go somewhere you need to go well
i wouldn't go i wouldn't go and i kind of just
sit there and smiled again i'm discipling these
guys and still a little bit young in their
faith and i said okay this is their excuses
i have a job i have a family i have a house
i had all three of those things by the way
um you know my family only lives here i had
that one as well and i said so there should
be nothing that stops you from following
the lord wherever he calls you and this
is really what i was challenging them with is
if the lord truly told you to go you would go
well what if you didn't go well we would have
somewhat of a jonah story maybe not a well
but there's god god will not let you sin
successfully right so whenever god calls you to
go somewhere maybe it's a cross to your neighbor
there's conviction as a believer of the lord
he'll place something in your life to say hey no
you're called to go and whether you like it or not
that's going to be placed in in your life and
so the question is and we're going to hear the
second this next point which will really
kind of get you thinking but if the lord
places something in your life like that
to put you on the path to following him
i would rather avoid that i'd rather just obey
first because i don't know about you guys but as
a kid i didn't like getting spanked or punished
so as a follower of jesus it's kind of that idea
and please don't take that the wrong way but the
lord begins to chase in you or he begins to place
things in your life to get you on the right path i
would like to avoid all that together but thinking
through this from my understanding of the lord's
word is all of us are called to go just like jonah
when we look at this in verse 2 god says get
up and go i don't hear him just saying to jonah
all throughout his word as he's telling every
single one of us in this room to get up and go so
it's tough to go right it's tough to go sometimes
to uncomfortable places places where maybe god's
ready to forgive a people save the people that
maybe you don't feel like they deserve it maybe
it's to places that make you uncomfortable
but the lord has called us all to go and so
when you think about all these
excuses that you have for not going
they're just excuses that really we go back to god
and god didn't have an excuse not to die on the
cross for you and to save you and i think about
that right i think about all that god did for us
to reach us he didn't withhold his son's
life to say i'm going to forgive you
so if god's willing to do that for you how much
more should you be able to walk across the street
be intentional where you live be intentional
where you work be intentional in your daily
relationship with him those things are minimal
to the sacrifice that god sacrificed for you
to know him and be saved so those are the things
i begin to build up for me is my motivation behind
the will of god and the word of god in my life
right the word of god and the will of god and it's
those things where we forget where we came from
as a follower of jesus we take that for granted
and and we start seeing people as unchangeable
i if somebody would have looked at me and i bet
you if i went back and found somebody back in
my teenage years hey could he be saved we're
talking about believers i think a lot of them
would probably be like nope he couldn't be and
sometimes we view people that way we view people
as they don't want to be saved they don't want to
come to church they don't want to hear from the
word of god they don't want to be loved and shown
the love of christ but we view it that way and
we already make a a really a judgment for them
and so really what i started challenging
myself is when you start viewing them
in their future condition rather than their
current condition because that's how god views you
he doesn't view you in your current condition he
views you in your future condition in heaven and
i think about this one of my favorite things to do
is to sit down with somebody who may be struggling
maybe not following god where they where
they should be or could be is to sit down
with them and really believe in them talk with
them help them see where god could take them
help them see that god can give them grace and
mercy and peace and hope to see their future
condition there's more people in the world
that need us to do that need to respond to
the word of god and i think about this this is
jesus example in mark 2 16-17 it says when the
scribes and pharisees saw what he was saw that
he was eating speaking of jesus with the sinners
and tax collectors they asked his disciples why
does he eat with the tax collectors and sinners
when jesus heard this he told them it is not
those who are well who need a doctor but those
who are sick i didn't come to call the righteous
but the sinners so look at jonah's circumstance
tunnel was hanging out with his people just
made a great prophecy about his people regaining
reclaiming some of their property high fiving
eating some good meals he's a prophet i mean he's
got a high position why would he want to leave
that i mean things are great but jesus reminds us
that it's not the health right
those who don't need a doctor
that we need to spend our lives with it's
those who are sick and hurting but then i
began to ask this question in all reality aren't
we all just a bunch of sinners and broken people
i think when we start viewing ourselves as
something better than someone else it's the moment
we get our heart wrong and why we don't want to go
to other people is we don't place ourselves in the
same brokenness that really they are and the same
struggle we all are the thing is we have the cure
we have the hope we have the answer that they're
waiting for us to go share so too many times
in church and churches that i want to continue to
avoid inspiring hope is hey a lot of churches puts
his sign on the door and they're not putting
on the door but they're putting it in the way
that they they run their services or the way that
they act is hey clean yourself up and then come
to church and the church is meant to be a hospital
where we are already living in a broken world and
a broken life where we're saying hey let me help
you mend your wounds and you help me mend mine
and you encourage me because i'm struggling today
and and i'll encourage you next week because i
know that next week you're gonna need it and it's
that that picture that when people walk in this
door and when they see us in the community they
see not a perfect people but a hurting people
that has a hope so those are the things like
i begin to think about what this is jesus
set the greatest example of where we're supposed
to be where we're supposed to spend most of our
time which is again with each other we're broken
people but with other people who don't have the
answer we have which is the hope of jesus right
and this is this is tough right if we responded
assuming let me tell you if god responded to us
the way that sometimes we respond to other people
have been saved that's a tough one i thought
through that it's sometimes the way like i
went on friday night so i can just be the one
as the example of failure and why i can need
to continue to grow and being uncomfortable is
friday night you know what god probably told me
if i acted like you acted on friday night not
really connecting with people and just trying
to meet them that you never would have been
saved because you know i would have only got
to one or two of the 30 or 40 people like those
are the ideas behind like okay i've got to just
change my heart my mind and on what god's called
us to do it's the word of god that challenges us
right and so too many times again the church is
known for what they're against than what they're
for i'm going to say that again too many times the
church is more known for what they're against than
what they're for i want to be four people i want
to be for them where they are in their condition
because i'm in the same condition in need of hope
and a savior and so by the word of god i want
to respond the way that jesus did right so all
jonah's problems were caused by wrong attitudes
towards the will of god right only going where
i'm comfortable or towards the word of god right
take it or leave a mentality pick and choose what
i want to follow whatever is comfortable for me
but the next one is an interesting one he had
a wrong attitude towards the circumstances
see the moment that jonah fled he seemed to be at
peace and things worked out but the farther and
farther he fled the farther and farther he went
down and so let me give you some examples of why
i mean that so it says he fled to joppa and he
found a ship that was basically going as far
away from nineveh as possible so one i'm running
from the presence of god and success i found the
ship that i was looking for i was able to afford
going in the ship and if you look at verse 5
he was able to go down into the ship and fall
asleep into a deep sleep those are three things
that would seem affirming to jonah running so i
don't know if you've ever had this instance in
your life where you've maybe rejected following
god in an area and things seem peaceful you're
like well it must be the will of god everything's
okay and so he had a false or a wrong attitude
towards his circumstances right and the question
is let me ask this question to you is it possible
to be out of the will of god and have
your circumstances work in favor anybody
i don't know if you've ever had that happen
they work in your favor things are okay same
seem to be okay but let's look at numbers
32 23 it says this but if you don't do this
you will certainly sin against the lord
be sure your sin will catch up to you
this is just a reminder to all of us at some
point running from god will catch up to us jonah
gives us a clear picture of that
because we're not there yet but jonah
begins to have a storm in his
life that affects other people
he would rather die than to turn and go to nineveh
so he's thrown off the ship he's eaten by a well
and i wouldn't want to spend time in the belly
of a fish for that many days that's disgusting
right so i just think through these things
i want to avoid the belly of the fish
but sometimes we run from god and things
seem at peace so the question is how do we
know how do we know if a true again if we're
following jesus daily conviction will come
the fish will come the storm will come that will
turn you back to the direction you should go
again lost or saved somebody who knows jesus or
doesn't know jesus our sin will catch up to us in
some some form or some some way to draw us back to
the lord or to the lord and so if you're wondering
why there's trials and storms in your life as
an unbeliever and you're thinking there's no god
because of these trials and storms though those
trials and storms are to draw you to the lord
and if you're a believer and you have trials and
storms in your life it's it's also just reminding
you that those trials and storms the only way
to get through them is because of the lord
because of the lord see jonah and i'm jumping
ahead with this thought but jonah's on this boat
and it's literally tearing apart and what what we
don't a lot of times think about with the story is
rather than being thrown off you know all
jonah would have to do get on his knees
and ask the lord to forgive him in
that moment god if you'll save us
i'll go back to nineveh and preach he didn't
do that he said throw me off i'd rather die
like sometimes we get to that point in our
trials when we know we're really kind of
running from our circumstances and we're like
i'd just rather die i'd rather go through this
than to go do what god called me to do i mean it's
it's that that happens in our lives right and it's
interesting right that that could actually happen
but it can again jonah's story's there so he had a
wrong attitude towards his circumstances right
disobeying god doesn't immediately bring about
consequences but eventually again as a follower
we will the last one is he has a wrong attitude
towards the lost this is one where it's really
just pushing us towards jonah didn't only flee
from his enemy because he didn't want to preach
to them right he was abandoning them in their
darkness and spiritual condition he was basically
saying this hey nineveh i hope you go to hell this
is exactly what he said when he ran i hope you go
to hell i want to see you destroyed that is hard
to think like it i mean you say hey it didn't
say that in there but running if that's what he
was called to do that's exactly what he was
thinking his head i would rather see you go
to hell none of us have ever thought of that
probably towards somebody maybe you have
and you have i hope the lord
has walked through forgiveness
i just think about this he hated the assyrians
not just their sin but themselves them
really just them as a whole but in
reality we not do that when we reject
living our lives out for jesus with those
around us when we reject i'm not gonna go
talk to somebody i refuse to go share the gospel
i refuse to go connect with people are we not
just saying i don't care about you because we
don't know if they're going to live tomorrow
and that's the thing conviction for me is i don't
know that they're going to be there tomorrow
so it's just that idea behind like where is our
hearts and we we think that there's always a
promise tomorrow for that person somebody else
would do it but what if god's called you because
they placed them in your life your neighborhood
your home it could be your kids right and so
he had this wrong heart and so i started thinking
about this jonah lacked compassion that's really
when we get this jonah lacked compassion to the
broken and lost people of nineveh compassion is
to be really this to empathize with someone
who is suffering and then be compelled to
do something about it right it's not just saying
oh man i hate that they're in that condition but
they're compelled to do something about it and i
think of it this way when you're starving you're
compelled to do something about it and until you
do you'll continue to be in that state of hunger
so jonah lacked that but we know who didn't it
was jesus in matthew 9 35-37 jesus says this it
says jesus continued around to all the towns and
villages teaching in their synagogues preaching to
the the good news of the kingdom and healing every
disease and every sickness and when he saw the
crowds he felt compassion for them because they
were distressed and dejected like sheep without a
shepherd and then he said to his disciples the
harvest the abundant but the workers are few
you know i saw this verse a little bit different
this morning when i was reading over it
he says the workers are few you know the workers
that he's looking for you want to know why the
workers are few the workers who have compassion
are few i think that there's a lot of laborers
that are capable to go out into the harvest
and win the harvest to jesus share the hope
but he's talking about this that the workers are
few it's the workers who actually have compassion
man it really hit me hard am i a worker that lacks
compassion because the harvest is plentiful right
there's so many people around us
that are distressed and dejected
that they're just waiting for somebody to share
some hope with them show love compassion help
them out be a friend listen to them man like
so you know i'm getting hit in the gut as i'm
studying through this i'm saying how can i be
better so this is the moment again i ask this
question and i make this statement really is how
dare i lack compassion towards people they're lost
that god has called me to and so whenever
i'm disobedient to god's word and his will
i'm fleeing from the presence of god when we're
disobedient to the will of god and the word of god
and really towards the lost i am fleeing
from the presence of god just like
jonah did to nineveh away from people god
has called us to to share the message of hope
so jesus has set this example we have no excuse
right i'll just give you some examples but god
do you know what they did to me how they
act what they believe do you not know what
i have to give up god my comfort my grudge
my bitterness my control my anger lord i'd
have to give up my self-centeredness see
god did make these excuses in pursuing you
he didn't in romans 5 8 it says but god proves
his own love for us that while we're yet sinners
broken and hurting people christ died for
us god did not wait for us to get it right
to die for us he came in the midst of our
brokenness and he's still present in the
midst of times when i'm still broken and not being
a compassionate follower that he's called me to be
so i just i look at this as we
kind of finish up today guys
a lot harder probably than maybe you would want
the story of jonah to celebrate oh man let's look
at jonah and kind of laugh that god did that to
him to really look at the story and say man i see
myself in this reflection of jonah that i'm
running from the presence of god so just to kind
of recap here all of jonah's problems were caused
by wrong attitudes and maybe i'll just push this
out of our problems are a result of our attitudes
it's the will of god right towards the will of god
it's only where it's comfortable is where we'll
go it's the word of god we can take it or leave it
yeah maybe it's our circumstances right maybe
just disobeying god's become numb to you you just
it's easy you just kind of keep moving on and
you don't feel like it's an issue maybe it's
just towards the loss right maybe you feel like
you know who deserves to be saved and who doesn't
maybe you feel like that that you know god
will save them without you that's usually a
lot of our excuses if i don't do it god will
send somebody else but god wants to use you
god desires to use you and you actually don't know
that so we don't need to wait around to find out
so as i look at these verses i don't know if
you can relate i know they can relate to me
and so here's the thing jonah was called to preach
what are you called to this is i want to be clear
this he said get up and go to the great city of
nineveh and preach against it so you have to fill
in that get up and go to the great house of your
neighbor to the great co-worker of your employer
to the great child in your home and maybe
it's not preach as in what jonah did
but it is to share to show compassion that jesus
did where you can't help but do something about it
i pray today we take some time to reflect during
our invitation that each one of us asked this
question what is god calling you to do to change
your attitude towards the will of god the word
of god your circumstances are towards the lost
maybe it's one of the four maybe it's all four
i don't know but only you know and the lord today
i believe has has used and will continue to use
this word to convict and draw us to go where god
has called us to go now the question that i will
leave you with is if god has called you as a
follower of jesus which means you've given your
life to him he has a place that he's calling you
as a church we have we really believe this that
god has called us as a church to inspire others
to discover hope in jesus right to discover god's
purpose for their life through a relationship with
jesus so in essence if you go look in god's word
all of us are have that call us to go help
other people experience that hope in jesus
but if you haven't given your life to jesus
you've got to get that first you have to get
the relationship with the lord first before
you can ever go for the lord you know a lot
of times we want to work for god before we
ever want to come to a relationship with god
and that's what god wants you to do today so
during this time of invitation as we get up and
worship as we take some time to pray and consider
what god's taught us in this word i'm going to
stand in the back and to me that's where i want
to stand each and every week for two reasons
i want anybody that has questions about today's
text if you're saying hey i'm confused can you
help me with this or maybe you just need
prayer over a certain area of your life
maybe there's something in here maybe it's
the will of god and you just need me to pray
with you about you seeing the will of god
differently come see me but maybe it's you needing
to give your life to jesus i'm telling you
don't leave today before you come back and
talk with me i'm going to encourage you i'm going
to use god's word to share the truth with you but
it starts with the relationship first and through
that relationship god will help you share the hope
of christ with others and help you fulfill your
calling just like jonah was called to fulfill
his calling and even for me this is the one
that i'll even just challenge you with before
before we finish i started thinking
back to the end of ephesians when paul
asked for prayer and here's what he asked for
he asked for boldness to speak as he should
so maybe that's what you need today you need to
pray during this time invitation that god give
you the boldness to speak as you should and
to forgive you for maybe lacking compassion
someone pray for us and we'll stand in the
back i want all of us to stand in worship
but please come talk to me if you have
questions don't let today go by without
seeing where your relationship is and how
you can take a step forward so lord jesus
we thank you for who you are lord i know today
just even walking through this text even more
as a church lord that that it's convicting to
me and um lord i just pray i'm just gonna first
of all pray for myself lord that you forgive me
for missing the opportunities to show compassion
to those around me in the areas of my life lord i
pray that you um give me a second chance lord as
you've given or more than probably than a second
chance but the lord you gave jonah lord to go
preach to nineveh so lord be a gracious god as you
are and lord i just pray that each one of us lord
can just receive your mercy and surrender
our lives to your call in our lives to go
and be the light to the world
lord i just pray for a person in this room
lord that may be struggling whether they
have a relationship with you or not lord i
pray that today that they make that decision
to follow you that they make that decision
to ask questions whatever their next step is
the lord we just pray as a church that we are
a church that is for the broken and the hurting
and lord we are here to encourage them
and open our doors and our arms to them
so lord i just pray this all
in your heavenly name amen